Back I am in a brand new fiddle,
once again, this time very lean but I already populated my data with some ingredients which is an array
with some strings and some persons, also an array but with objects.
Why do I do this?
Well since I have arrays here, it looks like we're now getting into lists, outputting lists.
Imagine you want to output this list of ingredients.
So we want to create an unordered list with a list item with meat and then one with fruit
and I certainly don't want to hardcode them there because a, that would be a lot of work
and more importantly b, our content is probably not static,
so it's probably changing or can be influenced by the user.
So we want to output this list through vuejs and turns out it's really easy to do so. For outputting a
list like this, vuejs has the v-for directive,
one of the last directives we haven't covered yet. V-for allows us like with normal for loop to
loop through an array and replicate the element on which v-for sits as often as needed
and additionally also pull out the content in the array for the current iteration and use it in the template.
Let's see it in action. Here
I want to loop through my ingredients so I can simply write ingredient, this name is totally up to you, in
ingredients,
this of course refers to my ingredients array here in the data property,
so to any property which happens to be a list or iteratable. So ingredient is the name I chose and I can then
use this variable which you vuejs creates for me during the loop with interpolation here for example
to output it.
Side note, you can use it like you use any other property,
so I could also bind to the reference of a link, I can pass it to a function call when listening to
event,
I can use it like any other property I've stored in my vue instance, just that I haven't stored it but vuejs
creates it dynamically for me instead.
So let's hit control enter and see our beautiful list, with these few lines of code,
we're iterating through our ingredients here and outputting it in an unordered list with the v-for
directive.